{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 NOTES
\f1\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 RVF letter advantage. Kimura (1961); Cerebral dominance and the perception of verbal stimuli. 
\i Canadian Journal of Psychology
\i0  
\i 15
\i0 , 166-71.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Bryden, M.P. (1966). Left-right differences in tachistoscopic recognition: Directional scanning or cerebral dominance?
\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cb3  
\i Perceptual and Motor Skills 
\i0 (23), pp. 1127-1134
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \cb3 Right visual field better for letters, even when mirror-reversed (cites other papers finding that too?)
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi-640\sl400\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 and in RSVP Scalf, Verleger but mostly for second target. Hard to interpret.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Left visual-field advantage in the dual-stream RSVP task and reading-direction: A study in three nations
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Bradshaw, Bradley, & Patterson (1976) RT study found some evidence for single-character effect of reversal on identification. How big was effect? They classified people into which visual field was better for that particular person. Then looked at whether asymmetry decreased, but that capitalised on regression to the mean.r, Bradshaw, Bradley, & Patterson (1976) found that the usual right hemifield advantage was reduced or reversed. But their analysis procedure took advantage of regression to the mean, classifying all participants by which visual field happened to yield higher performance in the baseline condition, and examining whether that asymmetry decreased in the mirror-reversed condition. They presented one of four letters on each trial. \'a0If you don\'92t analyse it that way, (Alex considering re-analysing the data) 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Bryden (1966) measured accuracy and didn\'92t find effect of mirror reversal on letter identification; in both cases, the RVF was better.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Scheerer (1974) used a partial report task with brief presentation of a horizontal array of 8 letters. Scheerer found some evidence for a switch to a LVF advantage when he used a task designed to force people to process multiple letters instead of one letter. The task, which he called Alphabetic, was a report on the alphabetically first letter of the test stimulus was required. In the task designed to encourage selective processing, Ss had to report a letter which was designated by a bar marker. \'a0The effect is not huge, but anyway he explains these results much like Goodbourn & Holcombe (2015) explained pseudoextinction:
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Heron (1957) begins by noting previous work by Mishkin & Forgays (1952) in which they found better recognition for English words in the RVF, but in bilinguals better recognition of \'93Jewish\'94 words (not sure if he means Yiddish or Hebrew, but both are right-to-left I think) in the LVF. Mishkin & Forgays had gone with a cerebral specialisation theory, that the left hemisphere came to be specialised for English words, the right hemisphere for \'93Jewish\'94 words. Heron (1957)\'92s experiments garner support for the alternative explanation that there is some attentional process that goes in the direction of reading. Heron\'92s experiments all involve flashing I think at least four stimuli simultaneously, and when stimuli are presented in both fields simultaneously, participants tend to do better on the left. He says that \'93In general, the Ss reported that when the letters were exposed in both fields simultaneously, the ones in the left field seemed to 'standout' more than those to the right of fixation. They reported that it seemed to them they were attending to each of \'a0the letters in turn, starting with those at the left.\'94 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 About the relation to our work, it seems it was accepted back in the 60s and 70s among many researchers that with multiple stimuli, English readers would tend to do certain processing starting on the left. But the experiments finding that almost always used more than two stimuli. Maybe as researchers in the 80s and onward settled on presenting only single stimuli, they lost sight of the effect of reading order, leading to the present situation where they don\'92t feature in the main reading theories.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Another take-away for me is seeing what Sperling\'92s famous 1960 monograph came out of. Sperling (1960) is presented as a foundational study in many a cognitive psychology textbook and thousands of articles. I\'92d never ever seen anything cited before it that was related (unless you count fin-de-siecle work on counting/subitization), but I see now a lot of people were doing related stuff with whole and partial report.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  Kolers & Perkins (1969) showed this for mirror-reversed letters and inverted letters as well as for canonically-oriented letters. Wolff & Mewhort (1986) briefly presented a string of letters and asked participants to report as many as possible. showed that, in a whole-report task, participants spontaneously reported letters from left to right when they were oriented normally, but when they were mirror-reversed, they were frequently reported from right to left. Krueger (1976) asked participants to determine whether a target letter was present in a briefly presented string of four letters. When the letters were canonically oriented, participants were faster when the target was in one of the positions to the left. However, when the letters were mirror-reversed, participants were faster when the target was in one of the rightmost positions, 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 accuracy/ RT
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Krueger (1976)
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 4-letter-strings. Unilateral trials appeared to one side, bilateral trials a 4-ltr-string on both sides
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 Target letter presented simultaneously, at the fixation point. Half the time it was present in the string, half time absent
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 E1: Normal letter orientation
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 E2: Mirror-reversed
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 The bilateral vs. unilateral comparison is relevant to 
\b Kim\'92s
\b0  brief-presentation experiment, but I haven\'92t gone into those results here.. \'a0Also relevant to Kim:
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 		 	 	 						
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \'93Results of Experiment nevertheless confirm the general finding (White, 1969a) of a left-hemifield superiority on bilateral verbal material, and a right-hemifield superiority on unilateral verbal material. \'93
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 But with letters backwards, do bilateral stimuli yield right instead of left dominance? It did shift it quite a bit, statistics at bottom of Krueger\'92s page 12.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 		
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 There tends to be performance advantage for the first and last positions, but the average RT and errors for the left 2 positions was better than the last 2 positions, whether the word was presented in the left visual field or the right visual field. When mirror-reversed, performance was instead better for the left two positions, esp. When the string was in the left visual field.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Differences from our RSVP experiments:
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 - four crowded letters, more to do with reading.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 - Doesn\'92t address bilateral left dominance.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 - Effect pretty small for accuracy. Athough large for RT
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 - Doesn\'92t address the latency of selection. Although, 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 - Doesn\'92t address the stability of precision. \'a0Does Nichols or anyone make an argument that it\'92s not scanning? They must, which makes a prediction about . \'a0Do these results resolve a puzzle about left dominance, like someone previously suggested that it\'92s not due to scanning because of some latency-related thing?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
OTHER EVIDENCE FOR EFFECT OF READING ORDER
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Reading order does influence attentional asymmetry during actual reading with eye movements of a passage of text. Pollatsek, Bolozky, Well, & Rayner (1981) assessed the \'93perceptual span\'94 of readers bilingual in English and Hebrew, reading text presented either in English or in Hebrew. Gaze-contingent displays were set up such that a window of text was presented around fixation that extended either further to the left or further to the right. When the participants were reading English, performance was better if the window extended to the right, whereas when they read Hebrew, performance was better if the window extended to the left. Recently, Jordan, Almabruk, Gadalla et al. (2014) found very similar results for Arabic versus English, in comparing the performance of bilinguals reading English and Arabic.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 These findings suggest that information farther to the right of fixation is used when reading scripts that flow to the right and information extending further to the left of fixation is used when reading scripts that flow to the left. However, this does not necessarily have anything to do with 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 A window of text was presented around the fixation point	
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Humans and animals show a bias towards the left for a range of tasks (Jewell & McCourt, 2000; Clement & Matthews 2015). Some of these differences, such as for recognition of individual letters, likely are caused by superior processing of certain stimuli in the right cerebral hemisphere compared to the left hemisphere. However, in some cases a left side advantage emerges only when relevant stimuli are simultaneously presented on both the left and the right.	
\f1\fs24 \
}